---
title: "Release Notes: V2, Derivative Dataset, IFVI GVFD"
---

This release standardises versioning for an early iteration (V2) of the derivative database of the [IFVI Global Value Factors Database (GVFD)](https://ifvi.org/methodology/environmental-topic-methodology/interim-methodologies/).

This package consists of `JSON` representations of the original `XLSM` database contained in the original IFVI data release.

## JSON hierarchies reflecting different organisations of the source data

The data tables in this derivative dataset are organised into various hierarchies to support different data analytics and visualisation use-cases:

- `by-methodology` This folder is divided into subfolders tracking the various methodologies used by the IFVI. The files it contains are "custom" (original) hierarchies representing the data. Not all the methodologies have data tables in this folder.
- `by-methodology-by-country` This folder maps most closely onto the original format in which the data was released and divides the database firstly by methodology and then by country (and then with impacts, values, etc)
- `by-territory` This folder consists of individual JSON files for the various countries and territories (including US states) that were included in some or all of the methodology data releases. The datasets here are organised firstly into geographical continents and then by country (or territory; some of the territories are not widely recognised as independent sovereigns). US states - which were included in one methodology - have their own subfolder.

## Data Modifications (Non-Substantive)

This dataset (and the repository containing it) is a non-official derivative of the International Foundation for Valuing Impact (IFVI) Global Value Factors Database (GVFD) V1.  This derivative dataset is intended to support the programmatic use of the Database for research-related analysis and visualisation. 

This dataset intends to reflect an accurate reformatting of the source data at the time of its compilation. This version of the derivative dataset is based upon the first version of the GVFD as published by the IFVI on October 15th 2024.

No material edits have been made to the source data. 

The following edits were made solely to support the intended use-case:

---

### Removal of currency symbols

To streamline intake of these `JSON` files into database systems, non-integer data (currency symbols) were scrubbed from the dataset. As is noted in the metadata, the IFVI Database is standardised on the US Dollar. 

### Editing of country and territory names

To assist with geovisualisation use-cases, all countries and territories were matched with their corresponding `alpha-2` values as defined by `ISO 3166`,

In order to render the names of countries and territories in more easily recognisable formatting, the names of 18 countries and territories were lightly reformatted. 

For example `"Bahamas, The"` was renamed `"Bahamas"` and `"Egypt, Arab Rep."` was renamed as simply `"Egypt."` 

---

## Separation Of Non-Data Entities 

- `metadata` This folder provides individual JSONs which capture the notes that were appended on each tab of the source `XLSM`
- `reference` A static snapshot of the supporting documentation (methodologies and user manuals) released by the IFVI alongside the data release